# JackCompiler: README

Other language:[简体中文](README_CN.MD)

## Overview
The JackCompiler project is a comprehensive system designed to translate Jack programming language code into virtual machine (VM) code. This project is structured into several key components: JackTokenizer, JackCompiler, CompilationEngine, SymbolTable, and VMWriter. It is an extension and optimization of a previous project (project 10) and is based on similar principles.

## Components
### JackTokenizer
The `JackTokenizer` is responsible for breaking down the Jack source file into its constituent tokens. It handles various token types like keywords, symbols, integers, strings, and identifiers. It also manages comment removal and token parsing.

### CompilationEngine
The `CompilationEngine` takes the tokens generated by the `JackTokenizer` and compiles them into VM code. It handles the compilation of class, class variable declarations, subroutines, parameter lists, subroutine bodies, and various statements and expressions.

### SymbolTable
`SymbolTable` is used to keep track of the scope and properties of identifiers like variables and subroutine names. It manages indices for different kinds of identifiers (static, field, argument, local) and supports operations like defining new variables, resetting tables, and querying variable types and indices.

### VMWriter
`VMWriter` is responsible for writing the VM code to an output file. It provides functions for writing VM commands, including push and pop operations, arithmetic/logical operations, label declaration, goto statements, function calls, and return statements.

### JackCompiler (Main Driver)
This class drives the entire compilation process. It can handle both single-file and directory inputs, managing the compilation flow and utilizing the `CompilationEngine` for each Jack file found.

## Usage
To use the `JackCompiler`, instantiate it with the path to a Jack file or a directory containing Jack files. Then, call the `compile()` method. For example:

```python
compiler = JackCompiler("path/to/JackFile.jack")
compiler.compile()
```

## Dependencies
- Python Standard Library
  - `glob` and `os.path` for file operations
  - `re` for regular expression handling
  - `enum` for defining enumeration classes

## Contribution
This project is open for contributions. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change. Make sure to update tests as appropriate.

## Acknowledgements
This project is partly based on the work of Sherry Dang at [this link](https://github.com/sherrydang/Nand2Tetris/blob/master/project11/CompilationEngine.py). Significant modifications and optimizations have been made to adapt it to new requirements.

## Contact
For further inquiries or contributions, please contact R7CKB@qq.com.
